# Rubric

## For everyone

### Open the calendar, it should be showing the current month.

- Open the webpage, it shows the calendar, and verify the month select is displaying the current month (Now it is in Feb by the time of testing);

### Go to October 2024. Observe:

#### A grid of 5 rows x 7 columns.

- Navigate the calendar to October 2024, confirm the date grid is 5 rows X 7 columns

#### The first row contains Tuesday October 1 - Saturday October 5. Sunday and Monday are either labelled for September 29/30 or are blank.

- Navigate to October 2024, confirming the first row contains Sunday and Monday are blank followed by Tuesday October 1 - Saturday 5.

#### The last row contains Sunday October 27 - Thursday October 31. Friday and Saturday are either labelled for November or are blank.

- Navigate to October 2024, verifying the last row contains Sunday October 27 - Thursday October 31 followed by Friday and Saturday that are blank.

#### October 8th: Ada Lovelace Day.

- Navigate to October 2024, verifying the second Tuesday (8th) contains a title - Ada Lovelace Day
- Unit tests in common.test.mjs

#### October 25th: World Lemur Day.

- Navigate to October 2024, verifying the last Friday (25th) contains a title - World Lemur Day
- Unit tests in common.test.mjs

### On the web page, open October 2020. Observe:

#### October 13th: Ada Lovelace Day.

- Navigate to October 2020, verifying the second Tuesday (13th) contains a title - Ada LoveLace Day
- Unit tests in common.test.mjs

#### October 30th: World Lemur Day.

- Navigate to October 2020, verifying the last Friday (30th) contains a title - World Lemur Day
- Unit tests in common.test.mjs

### On the web page, open May 2030. Observe:

#### May 11th: International Binturong Day.

- Navigate to May 2030, verifying the second Saturday (11th) contains a title - International Binturong Day
- Unit tests in common.test.mjs

### The following months start and end on these dates, and do not have extra days or padding boxes outside of the weeks they're meant to cover:

#### 2024-12: Sunday (no empty days before) - Tuesday (4 empty days after).

    - Navigate to Dec 2024, confirm no empty days before, and 4 empty days after
    - Unit tests in web.test.mjs

#### 2025-02: Saturday (6 days before) - Friday (1 empty day after).

    - Navigate to Feb 2025, confirm 6 empty days before, and 1 empty day after.
    - unit tests in web.test.mjs

#### 2025-05: Thursday (4 empty days before) - Saturday (no empty days after).

    - Navigate to May 2025, confirm 4 empty days before, and 0 empty day after.
    - unit tests in web.test.mjs

#### 2026-02: Sunday (no empty days before) - Saturday (no empty days after).

    - Navigate to Feb 2026, confirm 0 empty day before, and 0 empty day after.
    - unit tests in web.test.mjs

### Functioning previous and next buttons including at the end-points of the month+year selector (if it has ends).

#### If there are end-points to the month+year selector, the previous and next buttons must work flawlessly when going beyond that limit. The UI must not e.g. show an empty string, "undefined", "null", "NaN" or similar if the "current month" or "current year" is displayed anywhere in the UI. The calendar days must be correctly shown.

    - There is no end points of the year input.
    - Continuously clicking or tab over and then hold the enter key on the previous month button or the next month button to navigate over the months and years, confirm the calendar displays without any problem.

### A usable way of jumping to a month+year.

- Confirm the month select can select from Jan to Dec correctly by clicking or up and down arrow keys, and year input can allow entering any desirable number. The calendar can jump to that specific month + year.

### UI is generated by DOM manipulation, and day generation is dynamic. Everything would work if arbitrary additional days were added to the data file.

- The calendar renders the special events by looping through the days.json file.
- Add a new event in days.json, confirm the calendar will automatically show the new event accordingly.

### The website must score 100 for accessibility in Lighthouse

- Go to inspect, lighthouse section, confirm the accessibility score for 100 in all the mode.

### Unit tests must be written for at least one non-trivial function

- Unit tests in common.test.mjs and web.test.mjs

## For groups of at least 2

### Run the supplied file with node, generates a file named days.ics. Import that file into a Google Calendar (see instructions above). Verify the same dates as in the web UI.

    - In terminal, run node generate-ical.mjs, confirm a file named days.ics generated.
    - import that days.ics into Google Calendar, and verify the same dates.

### The events in the calendar must be whole-day events, and not have a start/end time.

    - Go to Google calendar, confirm the events by clicking on it that it does not show a start / end time, which is a whole-day event.

### Logic for calculating dates must be shared between the web generator and the iCal generator.

    - Confirm the file named common.mjs that it contains a function called getEventDate, which is shared in web generator and the iCal generator.
